### Week 6, Friday
## Hash Tables
**Hash tables** are data structures for storing key value pairs. On a high level, they are arrays where you can run a hash function on a key to find out its array index, so that you save time and don't have to iterate through the full array to find a single value.  
A **Hash function** takes in a key as its parameter, and returns the index of that key and its value. The logic in the hash function is up to you. The only rule is that it is solely dependent on the key argument passed in. Hashes are not random, and the same index should be returned every time you input the same key. However, you want to make this as unique as possible to avoid collisions.  
**Collisions** in hash tables sound like bad things, and the more you have, the less efficient your table is going to be, but they are also unavoidable. A collision is when a hashed key ends up being placed in the same location as another hashed key. Say your hash took the length of the key and used that as its index number (don't use that, it's for example purposes only). So the key "blue" and the key "grey" would have the same index of 4. A good way to handle this is to make every index in your hash table a linked list. So, when a key-value pair already exists at an index, you can add the incoming key-value pair to a new node on that linked list. This of course means that when you are trying to retrieve one of those values, your have to move through your linked list to find the key that matches your search key. This is why more collisions will decrease your time efficiency. But if you have lots of indexes, your space efficiency will go way down too, because you may have many indexes that are null.  
The point I'm trying to make is, you have to tailor both your hash function AND your hash table size to the data you are trying to store. If you expect many many many entries, feel free to make the table longer and the hash more unique to prevent collisions, but if you have a more stable idea of how much data you're storing (say an employee base, and you know you only have about 100 employees), the table only needs to be long enough to hold that many entries, and if they collide, its not that big a deal if an entry or two has multiple nodes.

#### [Table of Contents](https://hcoggers.github.io/Reading-Notes-Repository/)